In today's lesson,
we'll be talking about the components
of the long listing format of LS.
We'll talk about hidden files and
directories.
We're going to list files by type and
sort them by time.
And we're gonna talk about handling
spaces in file names and directory names.
And also we're going to talk
about what symbolic links are.
Here is some sample output from
ls used with a dash l option.
If you just want to see what files or
directories exist,
you could run ls without any options, but
if you want to see detailed information,
use ls space dash l.
The first bit of information
that is displayed
is a series of characters which
represent the file's permissions.
We won't go into detail what every
character in that string means, but
we'll be covering that in a later lesson.
So, the first group of
characters is the permissions.
The second bit of information is the
number of links to that file or directory.
Next, we see who the owner of that file
is, and what group that file belongs to,
the size of that file, and the last time
that file or directory was modified.
And, of course, at the very end is
the name of the file or directory itself.
Files or
directories that begin with a period or
a dot are considered hidden files.
So if you run ls it will not
display hidden files by default.
In order to see hidden files you
need use the -a option to ls.
If we want to see a long listing
output that includes hidden files,
we could run ls space dash l space dash a.
There's also kind of a shortcut for this.
You can just include one hyphen and
then follow it by all
the options that you need.
For instance, ls space dash la is
the same as ls space dash l space dash a.
Let's run ls in this directory.
You notice that there are no
files that begin with dot.
So if we want to see if there
are any hidden files we can run ls
with a dash a option.
And now we see a few
more files that show up.
.bash_history, .bashrc.
We've already talked about dot,
which means this directory, and dot dot,
which is the parent directory.
If you run an ls dash l, again, by
default, hidden files are not displayed.
You could run dash l for a long
listing and dash a for all files and
now we see the dot files or
the hidden files.
It doesn't matter which order that we
specify these command line arguments as,
I mean dash a dash l does
the same thing as dash l dash a.
Also know that you can combine
the arguments with ls space dash l,
for long listing and a for all files.
And again the order doesn't matter, so
we can do ls space dash al and
we get the same output.
When you perform an ls
by itself you may or
may not know what is a file and
what is a directory.
You can use ls space -F
to reveal file types.
ls space -F
appends a character to a file or
directory name that tells you what it is.
So if it ends in slash or
forward slash then it's a directory.
If it ends in an ampersand
that's a link a star or
an asterisk means that it's executable.
You can think of a symbolic
link as a pointer.
It looks like a file or directory but
it just points to where the actual file or
directory is and you would operate
on the symbolic link, or symlink for
short, the same as if it were
the file that it's pointing to.
Symlinks are often used to create
short cuts to long file names or
long directory paths.
Another common use of symlinks is
to indicate the current version of
an application.
Let's change into this directory.
When we perform an LS,
we don't know if current is a blink,
if it's a directory, if it's
a regular file or an executable file.
We can get this information
by running ls -F.
And we see that current is a link,
the two my-apps are directories and
readme is a regular file.
And we can confirm by running ls -lF for
a long listing format.
And we see current points to my-app-2.4.7.
Here we see a program, it's an executable
cuz it ends in an asterisk or a star.
And we can execute this by doing ./myapp.
If you want to list files
sorted by time use ls space -t.
Use the -r option to reverse the order.
And a common command that I like
to use is ls space dash latr.
This provides a long listing that includes
all files sorted by time in reverse.
Let's look at this directory
with an ls dash l.
It sorts the files and directories
by name If we want to reverse this,
we can use long listing and r for reverse.
Now we'll see it's sorted in reverse.
Videos comes first as where with ls- sl,
videos was last.
Let's do a long listing including
all files sorted by time.
And we see bash history is at the top.
It's the most recently modified file.
If we do ls dash latr that
will reverse this output.
And we'll see the most recently
modified files at the bottom.
And this can help if you have
a long list of files and
they can scroll off the screen.
So you'll get the most recent
files displaying on your screen.
To list directory contents recursively,
use ls, space, dash, capital R.
This will display all the contents
of the current directory,
and any subdirectories below that.
The tree command is a similar thing to ls,
space, dash, capital R.
But it's more of a visual output.
You can give tree a -d option and
that will only list directories,
and if you use a -C that
will colorize the output.
Tree is on a lot of Linux distributions,
it may not be installed by default,
so you may or
may not have access to this command.
Like the true command, ls has a dash d
option that only lists directory names and
not their contents.
By default when you run
ls space directory name,
ls will provide the contents
of that directory.
You can also tell ls to colorize
output by using ls space --color.
This is just another option to distinguish
file types, you can do ls space -F.
Or ls space --color, or
even combine the two.
If we want to display recursive
output we can use ls space -R.
And a lot of the information has scrolled
past the screen, but that's okay.
The tree command is something similar.
It displays things in a visual output, and
you see files and
directories in this example.
If you only want to look
at the directory structure,
you can use tree with the -d option.
And if you wanna colorize the output
you can use tree -C, or capital C.
Then you could even combine the two.
If we run ls against a directory,
such as music,
you can see that it displays the contents
of music, which in this case is jazz.
If we only wanna look at the directory
itself, we can use ls -d.
That may not make much sense in this
case so maybe Let's use ls- l Music.
And you see a long listing
inside of music which is jazz.
Ls -ld, long listing.
Only show the directory of music.
And so now we can see, for
instance, the last modification
time of the music directory.
Can use dash dah color for
ls to get color output.
And, sometimes, this is done by
default on some Linux distributions.
And the color coding here, in this
configuration, blue, our directories.
And we can confirm this by using -F.
If you wanna make your life
a little bit easier when
working at the command line, do not use
spaces and file in directory games.
Instead, get in the habit
of using maybe a hyphen or
dash where you would use a space,
or maybe an underscore.
Or even something called CamelCase where
you can capitalize the first
letter of each word.
Sooner or later you're going to encounter
a file name that has a space in it.
It may be a file that you didn't
create and someone else did.
You have no control over that.
How you can deal with this is
wrapping the file name in quotes,
be it single quotes or double quotes.
Another thing you can do is
escape the space character.
To escape something you
precede it with a backslash.
In this output, you can see
a file named myspacenotes.text.
If we were to try to run
an ls against that, you'll
see that ls treats it as two different
files, not one file name with a space.
So, to get around this, we can use quotes.
That works, using double quotes
also single quotes will work.
What we could have done instead was
maybe name the file my-notes.txt or,
maybe my underscore notes.txt.
Or even myNotes like this.
Or even myNotes.txt.
In today's lesson we've talked about some
of the more common and useful ls options.
We've learned about Symlinks, talked
about hidden files and directories and
how they start with a dot.
And we talked about a couple of strategies
for dealing with spaces in file names.
Here are the ls options we covered today,
-a to list all files,
--color to list files with colorized
output dash d to show directory names and
not directory contents.
Dash l for the long listing format.
Dash r for the reverse order.
Dash capital R to list files recursively.
And dash t to sort files by time.